# README
 	Welcome to PatternKeeper where your disorganized papers can be oganized in one simple application. A user can keep various patterns organized, see other user's kept patterns, and comment on a pattern. A User can clone PatternKeeper on github. simple copy this link https://github.com/jrtiff0221/patternkeeper. Open your own Integrated Development Environment or IDE. In the terminal emulator, cd into the desired document and git clone https://github.com/jrtiff0221/patternkeeper. Before running the application make sure to bundle install. Once the user is ready to Sign Up for PatternKeeper they will need to run rails s in the terminal. Copy 127.0.0.1:3000 and paste into search bar. A get request is sent to a server and 'application#home' is rendered. 
	I used bootstrap for css, it is very minimal due to users needing less images more time to organize those patterns into PatternKeeper. I ran short on time due to various reason, but all in all I’m satisfied with my Rails project. I can always go back and “refactor or revamp”. I’ve learned that commits can be good and bad. Good when code is good with minor debugging. I committed often and not all commits were commit worthy. Save the good not the bad. Devise and  Omniauth are the gems that allow users to signup and login via GitHub.   These gems make signing up and logging in fairly easy.  As well as, using a third party provider "GitHub" to get signed up and logged in even faster.
	When the server is started, a get request is sent from PatternKeeper ApplicationController the server renders the application#home template !user_signed_in? This is a Devise Helper method that states if user not logged in render  application#home template _navbar.html.erb Sign Up and Login buttons. Devise will automatically let a user know the entered information is incomplete, user already exists, wrong password, or email.
	Another get request is sent to a server and a logged in user is directed to the home page again, but with a Welcome message as letting the user know they have successfully logged into PatternKeeper. On the right upper hand corner are a few options Home, User Name, Create a Pattern(new pattern), All Patterns(created by all users), All Comments (created by a user on saved Pattern) All Users(All user on PatternKeeper), and Sign Out.
	When a pattern is created a get request is sent from PatternKeeper PatternController the server reads the request and renders patterns#new template views/patterns/new.html. The user fills out the form by selecting and typing each box on the form_for. The user submits the information. A post request is sent from PatternKeeper PatternController, the server again reads the request and renders patterns#show template views/patterns/show.html. This shows the user the input information.  Patterns can only be edited and deleted by the user who created the pattern.  Also on the patterns#show page is a comment form. All Patterns and All Comments are have scope methods in their model that shows the most recent Pattern or Comment. All Patterns and All Comments area both get request sent to the server from PatternController and UserController. Once the User is done with organizing their patterns they click on the sign out button and a delete request is sent from ‘Devise/#sessions#destroy’ UserController the server reads the request and render application#home.
	I struggled with Devise and Omniauth with my first rails project. Always reach out to others and cohort lead. This round of rails I still struggle with Omniauth, then deleted a branch on my github accidentally, had to start a new application, struggled with the table. I became more vocal I took advice from other students in my cohort. Pinterest was my inspiration for PatternKeerper. However all the graphics and pictures are a bit much for someone who needs to get organized.Through PatternKeeper not only can an individual get organized, but network with other crafty people. I am very happy with my rails project.  